# svn-clean
A utility for cleaning a SVN checkout by removing files that are not part of
the repository.

The current project page is located here: <https://github.com/blb2/svn-clean>.


## Building
CMake is used to build this project. There are plenty of ways of using CMake, so
choose the way that you prefer to work best.


### Building with Visual Studio
Newer versions of Visual Studio support opening CMake-based projects through its
"Open Local Folder" functionality. This is probably the easiest way of working
with this project. The `CMakePresets.json` file is provided to give a baseline
set of configurations that are similar to working with regular Visual Studio
projects. Of course, these presets do not need to be used.

You can also use CMake on the command-line to generate Visual Studio projects.
See the following section on how to generate these files.


### Building on Command-Line
If `cmake` is not in your system's `PATH`, then feel free to add it temporarily
with one of the following commands:

*   Command Prompt:

        PATH=%PROGRAMFILES%\CMake\bin;%PATH%

*   PowerShell:

        $Env:PATH += ";$Env:PROGRAMFILES\CMake\bin"

*   Git Bash:

        PATH=$(cygpath -u "$PROGRAMFILES")/CMake/bin:$PATH


#### Building with presets (on Windows only)
The following configuration presets are available, along with build presets
under them:

*   `windows-msvc-x86`: Sets up CMake to use the "Visual Studio 18 2026"
    generator for producing a 32-bit build.
    *   `windows-msvc-x86-dbg`: Builds the `Debug` configuration.
    *   `windows-msvc-x86-rel`: Builds the `Release` configuration.
*   `windows-msvc-x64`: Sets up CMake to use the "Visual Studio 18 2026"
    generator for producing a 64-bit build.
    *   `windows-msvc-x64-dbg`: Builds the `Debug` configuration.
    *   `windows-msvc-x64-rel`: Builds the `Release` configuration.

The following is an example of building a 64-bit release build:

    cmake --preset windows-msvc-x64
    cmake --build --preset windows-msvc-x64-rel
    # Build artifacts are now under build/windows-msvc-x64.


#### Building without presets
1.  Ways of configuring with CMake:

        # Simple initialization:
        cmake -B build

        # Allow the build process to be verbose:
        cmake -B build -D CMAKE_VERBOSE_MAKEFILE=ON

        # If you're on a native, 64-bit platform, but you wish to produce a
        # 32-bit build:
        cmake -B build -A Win32

        # If using CMake 3.27 or greater, and building on Windows with Visual
        # Studio, it is preferable to specify the version of the Windows SDK:
        cmake -B build -A version=10.0


2.  Ways of building with CMake:

        # Simple building; default configuration varies:
        cmake --build build

        # Build with a specific configuration:
        cmake --build build --config Debug
        cmake --build build --config Release
        cmake --build build --config RelWithDebInfo
        cmake --build build --config MinSizeRel

        # If a solution or workspace was generated by CMake, open it in the IDE:
        cmake --open build


## Usage
This application can take directory paths as arguments. If no path is given,
then the current directory is used.

    svn-clean svn-project1 svn-project2

On Windows, the shell is used to delete files. Unfortunately, this means the
list of files being deleted will not be printed out. However, the delete process
is actually just placing the files into the Recycle Bin. On Linux or macOS, the
list of directories and files are printed out as they're deleted.

If you'd like to see a test run, or dry run, of what the command would do
without actually doing it, you can use the `-n` option:

    svn-clean -n
    /home/user/project/Makefile~
    /home/user/project/README~

To revert as well as remove unversioned files, one can specify the `-r` option:

    svn-clean -r


## License
`svn-clean` is licensed under version 3 of the GPL or later. See [LICENSE.txt][1] for more info.


[1]: LICENSE.txt
